README.md, before:

# OCTDiff
Bridged Diffusion Model for Portable OCT Super-Resolution and Enhancement

Medical imaging super-resolution is critical for improving diagnostic utility and reducing costs, particularly for low-cost modalities such as portable Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT). We propose OCTDiff, a Bridged Diffusion Model designed to enhance image resolution and quality from portable OCT devices. Our image-to-image diffusion framework addresses key challenges in the conditional generation process of denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPMs). A novel component, Adaptive Noise Aggregation (ANA), is introduced to improve denoising dynamics within the reverse diffusion. Additionally, we integrate Multi-Scale Cross-Attention (MSCA) into the U-Net backbone to capture local dependencies across spatial resolutions. To address overfitting on small clinical datasets and to preserve fine structural details essential for retinal diagnostics, we design a customized loss function guided by clinical quality scores. OCTDiff outperforms convolutional baselines and standard DDPMs, achieving state-of-the-art performance on clinical portable OCT datasets. Our model and its downstream applications can potentially be generalized to other medical imaging modalities and revolutionize the current workflow of ophthalmic diagnostics.

The code in this repository was used as a downstream test on the performance of models across different image domains.

Commit message:

Enhance README with implementation and evaluation details
Expanded the README to include details about the implementation and evaluation of OCTDiff for downstream disease classification, highlighting its utility in clinical applications and performance comparisons.

README.md, after:

# OCTDiff
At Columbia University’s Medical School, I worked in the Artificial Intelligence 4 Vision Science Lab. We aim to increase the accessibility of Ophthalmic care. I implemented the downstream classification to assess the diagnostic quality of scans enhanced by our diffusion architecture.

I performed downstream disease classification using images generated by OCTDiff to
demonstrate the diffusion model's real-world utility in clinical applications. To reduce model bias, we trained three
classification architectures: ViT, CNN, and SwinT on three domains: (1)
high-resolution images from commercial OCT devices, (2) low-resolution images from portable
OCT devices, OCTDiff enhanced images. We performed 5-fold cross-validation for each
model-dataset pair, with the results shown in the Table above, and we conducted Mann–Whitney U tests
to assess statistical significance. This evaluation was conducted independently for two representative
ophthalmic tasks: glaucoma diagnosis and age-related macular degeneration (AMD) classification. Both of which are widely studied in AI ophthalmology, as they are the top two
causes of blindness worldwide.
Among the six models trained on high-resolution images, three showed no statistically significant difference, with the simplest vanilla CNN performing equally well in accuracy compared to counterparts
trained on OCTDiff-generated images. In contrast, models trained on low-resolution portable OCT
images exhibited a statistically significant drop. BBDM is selected as a representative of SR baselines,
which was outperformed by OCTDiff in 5 out of 6 rows. These comparisons highlight OCTDiff’s
ability to transform previously suboptimal portable OCT scans into diagnostically reliable images,
indicating that our method can closely match gold-standard OCT-image quality, or even exceed the
performance achieved by commercial high-resolution scans.
